Frequently (hmm...) Asked Questions for Cavepilot

-- General

1. You're levels are ugly beyond all recognition!

Yes. Draw prettier ones, or put up with them.

2. I want to use png/gif/jpg/whatever for my levels!
   Why do they have to be bmps?

Because using other image formats would require
another dependency. As things are right now, I see
no point in adding dependencies to cavepilot just
to support more image formats. On the other hand,
if you draw me enough levels to make the size of
bmps matter, I just might reconsider.

3. I want sound!

I am from time to time pestering a friend about
this. It might happen sooner or later. If you're
tired of waiting and feel like doing something
about it, drop me a line.

4. How come the ships looks at least alright, when
the levels sucks?

I actually learned to use POVRay <http://www.povray.org>
a bit to render them. It turned out ok I think.

5. Cool! Can you teach me POVRay?

No. What little I knew is completely lost in the mists
of my memory.

6. I want more types of weapons!

It is not a high priority at the moment. When the basics
are stable I am considering to add all the classic Turbo
Raketti weapons, but anything beyond that is most likely
looking into the very distant future.

7. I want more eye candy!

See q. 6, and add lots of distance.

8. I want feature X.

Drop me a line, and we'll see. If it implies new
dependencies, don't get your hopes up.

9. I've found a bug!

Great! Send me a description detailed enough so I can
reproduce it.

10. I've made a patch for a bug I found.

Great! Send me the patch together with the exact
command needed to apply it...

11. Are you serious? Can't you use the excellent
    patch utility?

Yes, more or less. It's shaky to say the least. But
send me enough patches and I'll probably learn.

12. Hey! I can make a better website for the game!

Great. Me too. But help is of course always appreciated.

13. What platform do you use for development?

I use Crux linux <http://crux.nu> on my 800 MHz PIII.

14. How do you build the Windows version?

I use cygwin <http://www.cygwin.com> on my parents
computer.

15. Do you mean you don't have Windows installed at all?

Yes. Installing Windows just to build cavepilot once in
a while seems like a waste of diskspace

16. Then why don't you cross-compile?

Because I don't know how and don't feel like learning.

17. I've got this great idea idea for a game, will you
    code it?

Looking at the release frequency of cavepilot it doesn't
seem very probable, now does it?

18. But I'll pay you!

Keep talkin'...

19. Do you like single malt whisky?

Yes. And judging by where the quality of this FAQ is
heading I probably shouldn't have another one.

-- Version 0.5.0 and onwards

1. I've found a bug in the console. When I type
   /[something weird] it behaves just as if I type
   /[some command].

This is a feature. There are potentially lots of wierd
looking aliases for most commands. Check the function
parseInput () in Console.cc for a more in-depth explanation.
Note that there are also a few planned aliases (like
/color for /colour and so on...).

2. I am evil and set the port to 666, but it doesn't work!

In general you need extra (e.g., root) priviligies to use
a port under 1024. But since there are 65000+ ports available
in total, there should normally be some other port that
isn't in use.

3. I am behind a firewall and clients cannot connect to my
   server!

Cavepilot defaults to port 42013 (which in very rare cases
might collide with development versions of the Stepney
webserver, but that is most likely not the case here). So
either you configure your firewall to let connection attempts
through on this port, or you play as client instead.

4. Why did you drop two players locally for this version?

Because it would add lots of exceptions to the code, and
IMHO the 0.3.x branch supports two players well enough.
Moreover I really feel like focusing on the network play
this time around.

5. Why did it take so long to get a version supporting
   network play released?

The short answer is that I am lazy. The long answer is
that I first spent some time integrating peer to peer
play in the old code base, what was to become 0.4.0. But
this ended up a serious mess, so I dropped it. A while
later I slowly started a rewrite with a client-server
approach instead. But due to the ill-planned and to
infrequent coding for me to remember what I was up to
the last time, this ended up a mess too. So after yet
another while I started a more planned rewrite, picking
up the pace a bit this time. This brings us up to date.


Lars Helmer <lasso at spacecentre.se>
